Now we wanna move on to the next TODO,
which is essentially in our quiz.
If we look at our finished quiz, what we
want is that after somebody has clicked
the button which is what
this is showing now,
not only does the explanation show up but
also I can't click these buttons anymore.
Because what we saw earlier, disabled.
So basically once I've made a choice
that is my choice that is final and
I don't get it back until I
reload the page, for example.
But what we want to happen is
that I'm gonna reload this.
I'm making a guess,
I don't know which one it is.
Once I make my guess,
I click the button and then that's it.
That's the last time I can
click any of these buttons.
Okay, so we're gonna disable all of
the buttons whenever I click one of them.
So this is our next TODO seven.
We're still within our
event handler function.
This is what's gonna happen every time
we hear a click event on either button.
We want to disable all of the buttons.
In this case there's two.
So we're gonna use
a another loop to do this.
We're going to loop over the buttons
again, and disable all of them.
Now earlier we had written
ourselves a handy little helper
function to disable a button,
so we're gonna use that.
Remember we have written this disable
function that's gonna set the disabled
attribute on the button element.
So we're gonna use our disabled
function in a loop to disable all
of the option buttons anytime
either button is clicked, okay?
Who would like to walk
me through this one?
Jason you wanna take a stab at it?
>> Sure, okay so
we're gonna disable the button.
So we would do a four similar
to the other four loop we had.
So four let button of option buttons.
>> Okay, sure we can do again four let
button of option buttons because again,
each time we do a four let of we're
creating kind of a new scope for
that variable.
But also we could name it something
differently just to make it easier for
ourselves as coders.
So maybe we could name it like,
I don't know
>> Simple buttons.
>> Yeah, unclickable button or something,
or we could call it something else.
>> Just out of curiosity, what it makes
sense to disable it in the same four loop,
so we have an event listener and
that first four loop that's
checking to hear for a click.
So once it's been clicked
can we disable and
that would it make sense to
disable on that same four loop?
>> We're gonna talk a little bit later
about when JavaScript is running this
code, but essentially what we're doing is
we're talking about two different things.
So this outer four loop
is going to run all of
the code inside of it basically
when this script runs.
And in this case the script is gonna run,
when the browser is reading through our
HTML file it's going
to see that script and
it's gonna start running it
immediately when we load the page.
So what we wanna do is immediately when
JavaScript starts running on our script we
want to do something.
And in this case what we wanna
do is add those event listeners.
If we put, like on this same level,
if we put disable button here,
when would the buttons get disabled?
>> Immediately.
>> Immediately, when we load the page.
So essentially I would never
be able to click them.
>> Right.
>> Instead what we want is for that
disabling to happen after somebody has
clicked and so that's what this
event handler function is about.
And this is why I have to
declare it as a function and
give the add Event Listener method that
function because what I'm saying is,
Hey, JavaScript,
here's some chunk of code.
Here's some function body
that I want you to run
after you hear a click event
on the button element.
So the code inside of this function,
inside of these
curly braces is gonna run
maybe if somebody clicks later
Then the code in this Chunk
of have curly braces.
So this the attaching of the event
listeners happens immediately when
the page loads and the script runs whereas
the disabling we only want to happen
after somebody has clicked.
So we wanna put it in
the chunk of code that we're
giving JavaScript to run when
it has heard a click event.
Does that make sense?
We're gonna talk a little bit
more about kinda time and
JavaScript a little bit later.
>> If you do disable button
instead of the four loop,
would it just disable the one
button that was clicked?
>> So now we're talking about scope,
right?
So what is the value of button?
This is a great example.
So in here, Okay
up here this button inside
of the four loop is,
Going to be basically each button
on the page in turn, right?
And here We
are We are declaring
the same name variable.
This is why I said it's sometimes
useful to use different names so
that we don't confuse ourselves.
But what we're doing is we're looping
over the buttons again later in
the program after somebody has clicked.
We're looping over them again,
so, We only have two buttons on our page,
we're talking about the same two buttons.
But in terms of what JavaScript sees and
which button it knows about that's
dependent on the scope that we're
talking in and when this code has run.
So this inner four loop is only
gonna run in the call to our
event handler function that
JavaScript is going to
call once somebody has
clicked one of the buttons.
>> I just tried, it only it only
disabled one button at a time.
Whichever one you pressed,
the other button was not disabled.
>> So that's the thing, so if we're
using button here, disable button,
>> It
will just disable the one that you clicked
>> But
now JavaScript is looking in
it's a little scope window.
It's saying like okay, where's my button?
And it's finding, okay in this four loop I
am currently running one of the buttons.
I'm currently talking
about the first button and
I'm attaching an event listener to
that button, which now is going to
remember the button that I was talking
about when I wrote this event handler.
So this is actually getting at a really
cool thing in JavaScript that we're not
really gonna get into.
But I get into for example in my
functional programming for steps course,
which is this is a closure essentially
over the value of the button.
Meaning that JavaScript, even though it's
going to run this function later after
my four loop has finished.
Like after the page has loaded,
the four loop is done running,
somebody clicks a button, this code runs.
It still remembers the value
of button at the time
that it was defined in my program.
So it's a big concept in JavaScript that
you can get into as you continue your
journey.
But suffice it to say, this is a nice
example of how JavaScript can kind
of remember the value of the variable
at the time when you wrote the code,
because of the way that it looks for
variables in certain scope.
All right, great.
So what we need to do
then is move this oops,
move this disable line
down into our second four
a loop in order to disable
each button in the second
option buttons loop that I'm running here.
All right, so let's see.
>> So did you want to change
that name of the button?
>> Yeah, so
we can change this to some other names so
that we don't confuse
ourselves like I don't know,
I could call it other button or
something like that, right?
But in fact the fact that we had used the
same name revealed this cool thing about
the scope that we're working with.
We have function scope and
the block scope and play here.
But yeah, sure we can name it something
else to make it clear to ourselves, so
that we humans don't get confused about
which one JavaScript is looking at.
So keep in mind that sometimes
you're writing code not just for
JavaScript to read but for yourself or for
your teammates or whoever else to read.
Okay, let's try this out.
I'm gonna save and go back.
Reload my local file and
now we expect that when I click
both things are gonna happen.
The text are gonna show up and
all of the buttons are gonna gray out.
My gosh it worked.
I can't click them anymore,
they are disabled.
Great job y'all.